We haven't talked too much.
We mentioned briefly another
way to declare variables
that's not let or const and
it is the key word, var.
So, var is another way that I can
declare variables in JavaScript.
And var has different scoping
rules than let or const.
We're not really gonna get into too
much of the intricacies of var and
how it works and how to use it, because in
general, in our code, we should be moving
towards always using either let or const
because var does some unexpected things.
And let and const are newer
types of declaring variables,
newer keywords let's say for
declaring variables,
that introduce a new scope
restriction around when
those variables are gonna be in play,
compared to var.
So var should be something that we're
comfortable reading because we're
gonna still find it a lot in examples,
in code that we find around the Web,
other people's code, that sort of thing.
But we're not going to
have much reason to wanna
declare new variables
in our code using var.
This is to say when it
comes to mutability,
var variables are re-assignable
just like let variables.
So newVariable = goodbye,
is totally valid in var variables
the same as it would be with let.
Now, when it comes to functions we said
that like for example let variables
because we can reassign them we can
mess with them inside of our functions.
So, function mess with,
we can have now setting,
new variable to messed.
So, now if I call and just to check, so
new variable once again was goodbye.
Now, if I call mess with and I check
new variable again, it's been messed.
So it works similar to let,
in function scope.
Now, what I haven't talked about yet,
is there is another way to
create a scope in JavaScript.
There's a couple of ways, but
one of the other ways that
we're gonna run into later is
what's called block scope.
So what we've been looking at,
the examples we've been looking
at with bankruptcy and
the planets and all this stuff,
this is creating new scopes as function
scopes where when we create a function,
we get a new scope in the function body.
Block scope is another way that we
can declare scopes in JavaScript and
it's using our friends the curly braces.
And so, in JavaScript there is
a difference between var and
let when it comes to how they
behave within blocks So,
for example, when I say new variable
equals more mess here inside of a block,
another thing with var is
that it doesn't really
matter if you redeclare
the same variable over and
over again whereas let works differently.
So let's say I'm gonna do
a letvariable = original value and
then within some curly braces I'm
gonna do let letvariable = new,
Let behaves differently.
So, what happened here is
that inside of the curly
braces I created a new scope
as far as let is concerned,
but not as far as var is concerned.
So that is one difference between var and
let.
And const also has what is called
block scoping like let does.
But because we're not usually
reassigning const variables where
we can't ever reassign const variables,
it doesn't trip us up as much.
But with let because we can reassign, let,
within a block scope and
get a new variable,
it's essentially,
let's go back to our whiteboard,
it's essentially the same thing
as in our planets example,
were we had a global, what did we call it?
Let variable that pointed to some
string original, I think we called it,
And then when we created our curly
braces that gave us a new scope,
that's called a block scope
that doesn't have a name, or
anything, just it was curly braces,
and in there we created
a different let variable,
which pointed to something else,
The same way that we had our planets
in our function scope before.
So now we have two different
variables in two different scopes.
And so when we asked for the value outside
of the curly braces, when we asked for
let variable JavaScript said, okay,
I found this let variable in my global
scope following the arrow original value.
With var when I had the var variable out
here, I can't remember what we called it,
and it was pointing to something,
let's say original,
inside of the blocks even though
I use that var keyword again,
we didn't create a new variable.
Instead what we did is we looked up
the old var variable in the outer scope.
We gave it a new arrow
Pointing to a new value.
And we actually change the value of
the variable in the global scope.
So with respect to functions var and
let work pretty similarly in terms of they
both behave with the new function scope.
But with respect to block
scope in the curly braces,
which is gonna come up a little bit
later when we have things like loops,
for example, or IF statements,
which we're gonna look at later,
in those cases the behavior of let and
var variables is different,
they have different scoping rules.
So, there might be some case in
the future in your JavaScript adventures,
where you're, no, you know what?
I really do want a var variable here,
because I want that lack of block
scoping that var variables give me.
But I think the chances of that
happening are pretty slim.
And the chances of, oops, wait,
what do you mean it's actually didn't
declare a new variable inside the block
it actually used the old variable.
And, no, now, my value has changed
I didn't expect it to change,
that chances of that happening
are way higher in my experience.
So that's why in general,
I've been saying, think about let and
const as being the way
to declare variables.
And var as being like an archaic
JavaScript fact of history that you might
see around sometimes like markings
carved into the wall of a cave that
behaves differently in certain situations.